Add Golang client getting started (#42)
memgraph/documentation: pages/client-libraries/go.mdx

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# GO client guide 

Learn how to create a Go application that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple queries. 

Memgraph currently depends on the [Neo4j Golang driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j#pkg-types) for Go. 
Memgraph and Neo4j both support Bolt protocol and Cypher queries, which means that same driver can be used to connect to both databases. 
This is very convenient if switching between the two databases is needed. This guide is based on the driver version v5 and above. Some examples may 
not be supported in older versions of the driver.

## Quickstart 

The following guide will demonstrate how to start Memgraph, connect to Memgraph, seed the database with data, and run simple read and write queries. 

> Prerequisites that are necessary and should be installed in your local environment are : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Necessary prerequisites that should be installed in your local environment are: 
```

> Prerequisites that are necessary and should be installed in your local environment are the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prerequisites that are necessary and should be installed in your local environment are : 
```

map[createdAt:{0 63828777600 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]
52
[Technology]
1
Memgraph
Fastest graph DB in the world!
2023-08-28 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
****** End *******
```

### Visualize the data 

To visualize objects created in the database with the `main.go` script, head over to [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) and run `MATCH path=(n)-[p]-(m) RETURN path` in the *Query Execution* tab. 
That query will visualize the created nodes and relationships. By clicking on a node or relationship, you can explore different properties.

![go-quick-start](/pages/client-libraries/go/go-quick-start.png)

### Next steps 

This makes a good starting point for Go application. For more information on how to use the Go driver, 
continue reading the guide under [Go client API usage and examples](#go-client-api-usage-and-examples). 

</Steps>

## Go client API usage and examples 

After a brief [Quickstart guide](#quickstart), this section will go into more detail on how to use the Go driver API, explain code snippets, and provide more examples. Feel free to skip to the section that interests you the most.

### Database connection 

> Once the database is running, and the driver is installed or available in GO, you should be able to connect to the database in one of two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the database is running and the driver is installed or available in GO, you should be able to connect to the database in one of two ways:
```

- [Connect without authentication (default)](#connect-without-authentication-default)
- [Connect with authentication](#connect-with-authentication)

#### Connect without authentication (default)

By default, the Memgraph database is running without authentication, which means that you can connect to the database without providing any credentials (username and password).
To connect to Memgraph, create a driver object with the appropriate URI and credentials arguments. If you're running Memgraph locally, the URI should be similar to `bolt://localhost:7687`, and if you are running Memgraph on a remote server, 
replace `localhost` with the appropriate IP address. 

> If you ran Memgraph on port different than 7687, do not forget to update that in the URI too. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you ran Memgraph on a port different than 7687, do not forget to update that in the URI too. 
```

By default, you can set username and password in the `neo4j.BasicAuth("","","")` argument as empty strings. This means that you are connecting without authentication.

To connect a Go driver to the Memgraph database without authentication, you can use the following snippet: 

```go {12-13}
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j"
)

func main() {

    dbUri := "bolt://localhost:7687" // (Default Memgraph Bolt port is 7687)
	driver, err := neo4j.NewDriverWithContext(dbUri, neo4j.BasicAuth("", "", ""))

	ctx := context.Background()
	defer driver.Close(ctx)

	err = driver.VerifyConnectivity(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	} else {
		fmt.Println("Viola! Connected to Memgraph!")
	}

}

``` 

Notice that BasicAuth takes three arguments, the first two are `username` and `password`, and the third one is the `realm`.   Realm is an optional argument that can be used to specify the authentication realm. If no realm is specified, an empty string can be used.
For both `username` and `password`, the empty string is passed, which means that you are connecting without authentication.

#### Connect with authentication

> In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to set up a user that has `username` and `password`. In Memgraph you can set a username and password by executing the following query: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to create a user with a `username` and `password`. In Memgraph you can set a username and password by executing the following query: 
```

```Cypher
CREATE USER `memgraph` IDENTIFIED BY 'memgraph';
```

Then, you can connect to the database with the following snippet:

```go {12-15}
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j"
)

func main() {

	dbUser := "memgraph"
	dbPassword := "memgraph"
	dbUri := "bolt://localhost:7687" // (Default Memgraph Bolt port is 7687)
	driver, err := neo4j.NewDriverWithContext(dbUri, neo4j.BasicAuth(dbUser, dbPassword, ""))

	ctx := context.Background()
	defer driver.Close(ctx)

	err = driver.VerifyConnectivity(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	} else {
		fmt.Println("Viola! Connected to Memgraph!")
	}

}

``` 

> It's possible you will receive this error: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may receive this error: 
```

In order to process the result you need to read them first, you can do that by running the following query:
```go
result, err := neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, "MATCH (n:Technology{name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n", nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase("memgraph"))
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
```
The `ExceuteQuery` method returns results in the `EagerResults` format, giving you access to the `Records` field. The records field contains all the records returned by the query. To process the results, you can iterate over the records and access the fields you need. 

For example: 

```go
for _, node := range result.Records {
    fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node))
}
```
```text
{65 65 [Technology] map[createdAt:{0 63828259200 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]}
```
In the example above, each returned record is converted into a map. From the map, you can access the `n` field, which is a `Node` returned from a query. The returned record and all its properties are of type `any`. This means you have to cast them to the relevant Go type if you want to use methods or features defined on such types. 

> To access individual properties of the `Node`, you have the following options: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access individual properties of the `Node` using one of the following options: 
```

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# GO client guide 

Learn how to create a Go application that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple queries. 

> Memgraph currently depends on the [Neo4j Golang driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j#pkg-types) for Go. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memgraph now depends on the [Neo4j Golang driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j#pkg-types) for Go. 
```

Reviewer: Is this correct?

> Memgraph currently depends on the [Neo4j Golang driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j#pkg-types) for Go. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memgraph at the momentdepends on the [Neo4j Golang driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j#pkg-types) for Go. 
```

Memgraph and Neo4j both support Bolt protocol and Cypher queries, which means that same driver can be used to connect to both databases. 

> This is very convenient if there is a need to switch between the two databases.  This guide is based on the driver version v5 and above. Some examples may 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is very convenient if switching between the two databases is needed. This guide is based on the driver version v5 and above. Some examples may 
```

not be supported in older versions of the driver.

## Quickstart 

> The following guide will demonstrate how to start Memgraph, connect to Memgraph, seed the database with data, run simple read and write queries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guide will demonstrate how to start Memgraph, connect to Memgraph, seed the database with data, and run simple read and write queries. 
```

> Prerequisite that are necessary and sould be installed in your local enviroment are following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prerequisites that are necessary and should be installed in your local environment are the following: 
```

 - [Go programming language](https://go.dev/dl/) 
 - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

> This won't be covered in this guide, but you can find more information on how to install them in the links above.

Reviewer: I don't think it is necessary to point out, i feel like it's obvious?

Author: ```suggestion
```

<Steps>

### Run Memgraph 

Start by running Memgraph in the background. The easiest way to install and run Memgraph is by using Docker. Start the container with the following command:

```bash
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

> This command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform), which includes,[Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images), [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start). Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed 7687 port. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform), which includes,[Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images), [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start). Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed 7687 port. 
```

> Memgraph Lab is a web application that can be used to visualize your data, it is available on port 3000, and port 7444 is used for the logs that are visible in the Memgraph Lab, so both port 3000 for LAB and 7444 for logs need to be open. If the Memgraph Platform is running properly, open a URL http://localhost:3000 in your browser and you should see the Memgraph Lab UI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memgraph Lab is a web application you can use to visualize the data. It's accessible at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) if Memgraph Platform is running correctly. The 7444 port enables Memgraph Lab to access and preview the logs, which is why both of these ports need to be exposed. 
```

	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	
	// Print the node results
	for _, node := range result.Records {
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node))												// Node type
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).GetProperties())								// Node properties
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).GetElementId())								// Node internal ID
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Labels)										// Node labels
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["id"].(int64))							// Node user defined id property 
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["name"].(string))						// Node user defined name property
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["description"].(string))				// Node user defined description property
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["createdAt"].(neo4j.Date).Time())		// Node user defined createdAt property

	}
	fmt.Println("****** End *******")
```

This code snippet is a minimal working example that will create a connection to the Memgraph database via Go driver, create indexes, create nodes and relationships, and read the data back. Take a look at the code in detail as

> it includes the comments to help you understand it. More details about the code snippet will be explained in the [Go client API usage and examples](#go-client-api-usage-and-examples) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it includes comments to help you understand it. The [Go client API usage and examples](#go-client-api-usage-and-examples) section will explain the code snippet in more details.
```

### Install dependencies

Once you've created the file, run the following command to install all the Go dependencies present in the Go modules section. 

```bash
go mod tidy
```

> At this point there should be only one dependecy, the Neo4j Go driver, and it should be installed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, there should be only one dependency left to install, the Neo4j Go driver. 
```

### Project hierarchy

The project hierarchy should look like this: 

```text
hello-memgraph
├── go.mod
├── main.go
├── go.sum

```
Don't modify the `go.sum` file as it is used by the Go tool to keep track of the dependencies checksums, and to verify that the dependencies have not changed.

### Run the application

> Now you can run the application with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can run the application with the following command:
```

map[createdAt:{0 63828777600 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]
52
[Technology]
1
Memgraph
Fastest graph DB in the world!
2023-08-28 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
****** End *******
```

### Visualize the data 

To visualize objects created in the database with the `main.go` script, head over to [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) and run `MATCH path=(n)-[p]-(m) RETURN path` in the *Query Execution* tab. 
That query will visualize the created nodes and relationships. By clicking on a node or relationship, you can explore different properties.

![go-quick-start](/pages/client-libraries/go/go-quick-start.png)

### Next steps 

This makes a good starting point for Go application. For more information on how to use the Go driver, 
continue reading the guide under [Go client API usage and examples](#go-client-api-usage-and-examples). 

</Steps>

## Go client API usage and examples 

After a brief [Quickstart guide](#quickstart), this section will go into more detail on how to use the Go driver API, explain code snippets, and provide more examples. Feel free to skip to the section that interests you the most.

### Database connection 

> Once the database is running, and driver is installed or available in GO, you should be able to connect to the database with one of two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the database is running, and the driver is installed or available in GO, you should be able to connect to the database in one of two ways:
```

		fmt.Println("Viola! Connected to Memgraph!")
	}

}

``` 

Notice that BasicAuth takes three arguments, the first two are `username` and `password`, and the third one is the `realm`. 
For both `username` and `password`, the empty string is passed, which means that you are connecting without authentication.

#### Connect with authentication

In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to set up a user that has `username` and `password`. In Memgraph you can set a username and password by executing the following query: 

```Cypher
CREATE USER `memgraph` IDENTIFIED BY 'memgraph';
```

Then, you can connect to the database with the following snippet:

```go {12-15}
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j"
)

func main() {

	dbUser := "memgraph"
	dbPassword := "memgraph"
	dbUri := "bolt://localhost:7687" // (Default Memgraph Bolt port is 7687)
	driver, err := neo4j.NewDriverWithContext(dbUri, neo4j.BasicAuth(dbUser, dbPassword, ""))

	ctx := context.Background()
	defer driver.Close(ctx)

	err = driver.VerifyConnectivity(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	} else {
		fmt.Println("Viola! Connected to Memgraph!")
	}

}

``` 

> If you receive the following error: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible you will receive this error: 
```

```panic: Neo4jError: Memgraph.ClientError.Security.Unauthenticated (Authentication failure)```
    
The error indicates that you have probably enabled authentication in Memgraph, but are trying to connect without authentication. For more details on how to set authentication further, visit the [Memgraph authentication guide](/configuration/security/#creating-user).

#### Go client connection lifecycle management 

> Once driver connection to Memgraph is established, it doesn't need to be closed. It's sufficient to open a single client connection to Memgraph and use it for all queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the driver connection to Memgraph is established, it doesn't need to be closed. It's sufficient to open a single client connection to Memgraph and use it for all queries.
```

In the examples above, Go [context](https://pkg.go.dev/context) has been used to manage the client's lifecycle. In this case, the client's lifetime is tied to the application's lifecycle.

The following code snippet will make sure to close the client connection once the application is finished: 

```go
ctx := context.Background()
defer driver.Close(ctx)
```

Keep in mind that driver object is thread safe, and can be reused between different threads. 

### Query the database 

> After connecting your driver to Memgraph. you can start running queries. The simplest way to run queries is by using the `ExecuteQuery()` method which has an automatic transaction management. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After connecting your driver to Memgraph, you can start running queries. The simplest way to run queries is by using the `ExecuteQuery()` method which has an automatic transaction management. 
```

if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
```

The `ExecuteQuery()` method takes the following arguments:

- `ctx` - context of the application.
- `driver` - driver object connected to the Memgraph database.
- `query` - Cypher query that need to be executed.
- `params` - parameters passed to the query.
- `resultTransformer` - the result transformer that will transform the result into the desired format.
- `config` - query configuration, like database name, user, etc.

Due to the nature of the `ExecuteQuery()` method, transactions are handled automatically. 

#### Run a read query 

The following query will read data from the database: 

```go
result, err := neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, "MATCH (n:Technology{name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n", nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase("memgraph"))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
} else {
	fmt.Println(result)
}

// Print each node as map
for _, node := range result.Records {
	fmt.Println(node.AsMap())
}
```
In this query, each record contains a node accessible by the `AsMap()` method.

#### Running queries with property map

> If you want to pass a property map to the query, you can do it like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to pass a property map to the query, you can do it in the following way
```

```go
result, err := neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, "MATCH (n:Technology{name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n", nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase("memgraph"))
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
```
The `ExceuteQuery` method returns results in the `EagerResults` format, giving you access to the `Records` field. The records field contains all the records returned by the query. To process the results, you can iterate over the records and access the fields you need. 

For example: 

```go
for _, node := range result.Records {
    fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node))
}
```
```text
{65 65 [Technology] map[createdAt:{0 63828259200 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]}
```
In the example above, each returned record is converted into a map. From the map, you can access the `n` field, which is a `Node` returned from a query. The returned record and all its properties are of type `any`. This means you have to cast them to the relevant Go type if you want to use methods or features defined on such types. 

To access individual properties of the `Node`, you have the following options: 

> To access individual properties of the `Node` you have following options: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```go
node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).GetProperties() // map[createdAt:{0 63828259200 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]
node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).GetElementId() // 65
node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Labels // [Technology]
node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["id"].(int64) // 1
node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["name"].(string) // Memgraph
node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["description"].(string) // Fastest graph DB in the world!
node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node).Props["createdAt"].(neo4j.Date).Time() // 2023-08-22 00:00:00 +0000 UTC

```

You can access all `Node` properties by casting and accessing the `Props` field. Keep in mind that the `GetElementId()`  returns the internal ID of the node, which is not the same as the user-defined ID, and it should not 
be used for any application-level logic.

#### Process the Relationship result

> You can also receive a relationship from the query. For example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also receive a relationship from a query. For example: 
```

//Create a relationship between two nodes, developer and technology
query = "CREATE (d:Developer {name: 'John Doe'})-[:USES {id:99}]->(t:Technology {id: 1, name:'Memgraph', description: 'Fastest graph DB in the world!', createdAt: Date()});"
_, err = neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, query, nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase(""))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}

//Read a relationship between two nodes, developer and technology
query = "MATCH (d:Developer)-[r:USES]->(t:Technology) RETURN r"
result, err = neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, query, nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase(""))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
// Process results 
for _, rel := range result.Records {
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship))
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).GetProperties())
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).GetElementId())
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).Type)
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).StartElementId)
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).EndElementId)
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).Props["id"].(int64))
}
```

> You can access the `Relationship` properties in the same way as you access the [Node](#process-the-node-result) properties. `StartElementId` and `EndElementId` are the internal IDs of the start and end nodes of the relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the `Relationship` properties just like the [Node](#process-the-node-result) properties. `StartElementId` and `EndElementId` are the internal IDs of the start and end nodes of the relationship.
```

	fmt.Println(path.AsMap()["p"].(neo4j.Path).Nodes)
	fmt.Println(path.AsMap()["p"].(neo4j.Path).Relationships)
}
```

Path will contain [Nodes](#process-the-node-result) and [Relationships[#process-the-relationship-result], that can be accessed in the same way as in the previous examples, by casting them to the relevant type.

#### Types mapping and casting

 Here is the full table of the mapping between Memgraph Cypher types and the types used in the Go driver:

|  Cypher Type | Driver Type        |
|-------------:|:-------------------|
|          Null| nil                |
|       String | string             |
|      Boolean | bool               |
|      Integer | int64              |
|        Float | float              |
|         List | []any              |
|          Map | map[string]any     |
|         Node | neo4j.Node         |
| Relationship | neo4j.Relationship |
|         Path | neo4j.Path         |
|     Duration | neo4j.Duration     |
|         Date | neo4j.Date         |
|    LocalTime | neo4j.LocalTime    |
|LocalDateTime | neo4j.LocalDateTime|

Keep in mind that Memgraph does not support timezones at the moment. 

### Transaction management

> Transaction is a unit of work that is executed on the database, it could be some basic read, write or complex set of steps in form of series of queries. There can be multiple ways to mange transaction, but usually, they are managed automatically by the driver or manually by the explicit code steps. Transaction management defines how to handle the transaction, when to commit, rollback, or terminate it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transaction is a unit of work that is executed on the database, it could be some basic read, write or complex set of steps in form of series of queries. There can be multiple ways to mange transaction, but usually, they are managed automatically by the driver or manually by the explicit code steps. Transaction management defines how to handle the transaction, when to commit, rollback, or terminate it.

```

</Callout>

The automatic transaction management has been used in the [Quickstart](#quickstart) section, so you can take a look at the code samples there to see how it works.

#### Manual transaction management

Manaual transaction management provieds more control and fexibility to the code running transaction, which can help with optimisation and correctness. It is based on chunking multiple queries, rolling back, terminating, and commiting transactions based on bussines logic and requirements.
This usually comes with a cost of more code and more complexity.

##### Session management

Before you manage manual transactions, you'll need to create a session. A session is a specific connection to the database that can live for a certain period. The session connection is lightweight and should be closed after the 
wanted queries have been executed. You don't need to keep the session open for the whole duration of the application. To open a session, use the code snippet below: 

```go
session := driver.NewSession(ctx, neo4j.SessionConfig{DatabaseName: "neo4j"})
defer session.Close(ctx)
```

Sessions are not thread safe, so you should create a new session for each Go routine. 

> With sessions, you can run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With sessions, you can:
```

		RETURN n;
		`, map[string]any{
		"filter": name,
	})
	if err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}
	records, _ := result.Collect(ctx)
	return records, nil
}

func getDevNodesByName(ctx context.Context, tx neo4j.ExplicitTransaction, name string) (any, error) {
	result, err := tx.Run(ctx, `
		MATCH (n:Developer) WHERE n.name = $filter
		RETURN n;
		`, map[string]any{
		"filter": name,
	})
	if err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}
	records, _ := result.Collect(ctx)
	return records, nil
}

	// Rest of the main missing for brevity

	tx, err := session.BeginTransaction(ctx)

	memgraph, err := getTechNodesByName(ctx, tx, "Memgraph")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	for _, node := range memgraph.([]*neo4j.Record) {
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node))
	}

	goLang, err := getTechNodesByName(ctx, tx, "Go")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	for _, node := range goLang.([]*neo4j.Record) {
		fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node))
	}

	//custom processing 

	err = tx.Commit(ctx) 
	// or tx.Rollback(ctx)
	if err != nil {

		fmt.Println("Error committing transaction")
		fmt.Println("Transaction rolled back because of error" + err.Error())
	}
	// Rest of the main missing for brevity

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

##### Implicit transaction 

> Implicit or auto-commit transactions won't be automatically retried as with `ExecuteQuery()` procedure or managed transactions.

Reviewer: procedure or method?

Author: ```suggestion
Implicit or auto-commit transactions won't be automatically retried as with `ExecuteQuery()` method or managed transactions.
```

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# GO client guide 

## Quickstart 

Learn how to create a Go application that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple queries. 
This will introduce the basics of Memgraph and the Go driver. 

For Go Memgraph currently depends on the [Neo4j Golang driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j#pkg-types). 
Memgraph and Neo4j both support Bolt protocol and Cypher queries, which means that same driver can be used to connect to both databases. 

> This is very convenient if there is a need to switch between the two databases.  This guide is based on the driver version v5 and above. Some examples may 

Author: Done.

not be supported in older versions of the driver.

<Callout type="info"> 
Prerequisite, that won't be covered in the guide, but are necessary for following is installed [Go programming language](https://go.dev/dl/) and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) in your local environment. 

> </Callout>

Author: Done.

<Steps>

### Run Memgraph 

Start by running Memgraph in background. The easiest way is to use Docker, start the container with the following command:

```bash
docker run -it -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

> This will start [Memgraph platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker), that includes,[Memgraph database](https://memgraph.com/memgraphdb), [Memgraph Lab](https://memgraph.com/lab) and [Memgraph MAGE](https://memgraph.com/docs/mage). Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client, for this reasone, port 7687 is exposed. 

Author: Yeah, but what to link for MemgraphDB inside the docs?

****** Technology nodes created *******
****** Relationships created *******
****** Node values: *******
{52 52 [Technology] map[createdAt:{0 63828777600 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]}
map[createdAt:{0 63828777600 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]
52
[Technology]
1
Memgraph
Fastest graph DB in the world!
2023-08-28 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
****** End *******
```

### Visualize the data 

In order to visualize what has been created in the database with the main.go script, head over to http://localhost:3000/ and run `MATCH path=(n)-[p]-(m) RETURN path` at the Query Execution tab. 
That query will visualize the created nodes and relationships and by clicking on each node or relationship, you can explore different properties.

![go-quick-start](/pages/client-libraries/go/go-quick-start.png)

### Next steps 

This makes a good starting point for Go application.For more information on how to use the Go driver, 
continue reading the guide under [Go client API usage and examples](#go-client-api-usage-and-examples), by the section that interest you the most. 

</Steps>

## Go client API usage and examples 

> ### Database connection 

Author: Added.

To connect to Memgraph, create a driver object with the appropriate URI and credentials arguments. If you're running Memgraph locally, URI looks something like `bolt://localhost:7687`, and if you are running Memgraph on a remote server, 
replace `localhost` with the appropriate IP address. 
If you ran Memgraph on port different than 7687, do not forget to update that in the URI too. 

By default, you can set username and password in the `neo4j.BasicAuth("","","")` argument as empty strings. This means that you are connecting without authentication.

To connect a Go driver to the Memgraph database without authentication, you can use the following snippet: 

```go {12-13}
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/neo4j/neo4j-go-driver/v5/neo4j"
)

func main() {

    dbUri := "bolt://localhost:7687" // (Default Memgraph Bolt port is 7687)
	driver, err := neo4j.NewDriverWithContext(dbUri, neo4j.BasicAuth("", "", ""))

	ctx := context.Background()
	defer driver.Close(ctx)

	err = driver.VerifyConnectivity(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	} else {
		fmt.Println("Viola! Connected to Memgraph!")
	}

}

``` 

> Notice that BasicAuth takes three arguments, the first two are `username` and `password`, and the third one is the `realm`. 

Author: ```suggestion
Notice that BasicAuth takes three arguments, the first two are `username` and `password`, and the third one is the `realm`.   Realm is an optional argument that can be used to specify the authentication realm. If no realm is specified, an empty string can be used.
```

For both `username` and `password`, the empty string is passed, which means that you are connecting without authentication.

#### Connect with authentication

In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to set up a user, that has `username` and `password`. The simplest way to accomplish this is by running the query that sets a proper username and password, like this: 

```Cypher
CREATE USER `memgraph` IDENTIFIED BY 'memgraph';
```

> You can run the following Query via Memgraph Lab

Author: Note sure what you are refering to?

> You can run the following Query via Memgraph Lab

Author: Removed the sentance about LAB.

- `config` - configuration of the query, like database name, user, etc.

Due to nature of `ExecuteQuery` method, transaction is handled automatically. 

#### Run a read query 

Here is the simple read query:

```go
result, err := neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, "MATCH (n:Technology{name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n", nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase("memgraph"))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
} else {
	fmt.Println(result)
}

// Print each node as map
for _, node := range result.Records {
	fmt.Println(node.AsMap())
}
```
In this query each record contains a node, and you can access it by using `AsMap()` method.

#### Running queries with property map

If you want to pass a map of properties to the query, you can do it like this:

```go
_, err = neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, "CREATE (n:Technology{name: $name, type: $type})", map[string]any{"name": "Memgraph", "type": "graph database"}, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase(""))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
```
This way your queries do not contain hard-coded values, and you can make your queries more dynamic.

### Process the results

> In order to read results and serve them back to you Go application you need to handle them. Go is statically typed language and proper types need to be handled. 
> Depending on the type of the request you made, you can get different results back. Lets go over a few basic examples on how to handle different types and access properties of the returned results.

Author: ```suggestion
Processing results from the database is important since we do not want to lose any data during conversions. To properly read results and serve them back to the Go application, they need to be cast into proper types. 

Depending on the type of request made, you can receive different results, `Nodes`, `Relationships`, `Paths` etc. Let's go over a few basic examples of how to handle different types and access properties of the returned results.
```

#### Process the Node result

> By running the following query:

Author: Added context :D

```go
result, err := neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, "MATCH (n:Technology{name: 'Memgraph'}) RETURN n", nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase("memgraph"))
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}
```
When using `ExceuteQuery`, the returned results are in the `EagerResults` format, which means you have access to the `Records` field. Records field contains all the records returned by the query. To process the results, you can iterate over the records and access the fields you need. 
Here is the example: 

```go
for _, node := range result.Records {
    fmt.Println(node.AsMap()["n"].(neo4j.Node))
}
```
```text
{65 65 [Technology] map[createdAt:{0 63828259200 <nil>} description:Fastest graph DB in the world! id:1 name:Memgraph]}
```

Lets break down the result. So for each returned record, it is getting converted to a map, now we can access the `n` field, which is a `Node` returned from a query. The returned record and all its properties are of type `any`. This means that you have to cast them to the relevant Go type if you want to use methods/features defined on such types. 

> To access individual properties of the `Node` you have following options: 

Author: This sounds ok to me, You need to say Go what type it will recive, once the Type is there you can call some function. For example if type is Path you can call Get source node etc.

	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship))
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).GetProperties())
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).GetElementId())
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).Type)
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).StartElementId)
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).EndElementId)
	fmt.Println(rel.AsMap()["r"].(neo4j.Relationship).Props["id"].(int64))
}
```

You can access the `Relationship` properties in the same way as you access the node properties. StartElementId and EndElementId are the internal IDs of the start and end node of the relationship.

#### Process the Path result

You can also get a path back from the Memgraph, here is the example: 

```go
query = "MATCH p=(d:Developer)-[r:USES]->(t:Technology) RETURN p"
result, err = neo4j.ExecuteQuery(ctx, driver, query, nil, neo4j.EagerResultTransformer, neo4j.ExecuteQueryWithDatabase(""))
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}

for _, path := range result.Records {
	fmt.Println(path.AsMap()["p"].(neo4j.Path))
	fmt.Println(path.AsMap()["p"].(neo4j.Path).Nodes)
	fmt.Println(path.AsMap()["p"].(neo4j.Path).Relationships)
}
```

> Path will contain Nodes and Relationships, that can be accessed in the same way as in the previous examples, by casting them to the relevant type.

Author: Done.

#### Types mapping and casting

 Here is the full table of the mapping between Memgraph Cypher types and the types used in the Go driver:

|  Cypher Type | Driver Type        |
|-------------:|:-------------------|
|          Null| nil                |
|       String | string             |
|      Boolean | bool               |
|      Integer | int64              |
|        Float | float              |
|         List | []any              |
|          Map | map[string]any     |
|         Node | neo4j.Node         |
| Relationship | neo4j.Relationship |
|         Path | neo4j.Path         |
|     Duration | neo4j.Duration     |
|         Date | neo4j.Date         |
|    LocalTime | neo4j.LocalTime    |
|LocalDateTime | neo4j.LocalDateTime|

Keep in mind that Memgraph does not support timezones at the moment. 

### Transaction management

> #### Automatic transaction management 

Author: Done.

> By using simple `ExecuteQuery()` method, driver is taking care of the transaction for the Cypher query you are trying to execute. The `ExceuteQuery()` should be used in most case where you do not need transaction control, you can also pass multiple queries inside the `ExecuteQuery()`. 

Author: Done.

<Callout type="warning">

Error with multicommand transactions

`Index manipulation not allowed in multicommand transactions` is a kind of error you might experience. To fix that, use [implicit (or auto-commit) transactions](#implicit-transactions) instead.

> That is the simplest way to run a Cypher query because implicit transactions won't be automatically retried as with `execute_query()` procedure or managed transactions.

Author: It should be ExecuteQuery().

> That is the simplest way to run a Cypher query because implicit transactions won't be automatically retried as with `execute_query()` procedure or managed transactions.

Author: I have removed the line about retries, so I am not for this change.

> To create a label-property index on `:User(name)`, run the following code:

Author: I have deleted this, it is not necessary.

> To create a label-property index on `:User(name)`, run the following code:

Author: Added the code.

</Callout>

The automatic transaction managment has been used in the [Quickstart](#quickstart) section, so you can take a look at the code samples there, to see how it works.

#### Manual transaction management

> ##### Session management

Author: I have added a bit of contex, pleas take a look.

- `BeginTransaction` - starts a new explicit transaction. (explicit transaction)
- `Run` - executes a auto-commit statement and returns result. (implicit transaction)

##### Managed Transactions

In some cases when using automatic transactions via `ExecuteQuery`, you will lack an possibility to have business logic between transactions. For that reasone it is also possible to manually manage transactions, which can bring flexibility into how the queries are executed. 
Let's take a look into the basic example if you want to read data from the database, here is the example of the managed transaction:

```go {1-14}
	nodes, err := session.ExecuteRead(ctx,
		func(tx neo4j.ManagedTransaction) (any, error) {
			result, err := tx.Run(ctx, `  
				MATCH (n:Technology) WHERE n.name = "Memgraph"
				RETURN n;
				`, map[string]any{
				"filter": "Memgraph",
			})
			records, err := result.Collect(ctx)
			if err != nil {
				return nil, err
			}
			return records, nil
		})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	} else {
		for _, tech := range nodes.([]*neo4j.Record) {
			fmt.Println(tech.AsMap())
		}
	}
```

> Now the `session.ExecuteRead` gets the function as an argument, which is executed in the transaction, and the result is returned. 

Author: Added a bit more contex, check it.
